.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, before:

<!--- Remove sections that do not apply -->

This issue tracker is only for technical issues related to bitcoin-core.

General bitcoin questions and/or support requests and are best directed to the [Bitcoin StackExchange](https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com).

For reporting security issues, please read instructions at [https://bitcoincore.org/en/contact/](https://bitcoincore.org/en/contact/).

### Describe the issue

### Can you reliably reproduce the issue?
#### If so, please list the steps to reproduce below:
1.
2.
3.

### Expected behaviour
Tell us what should happen

### Actual behaviour
Tell us what happens instead

### Screenshots.
If the issue is related to the GUI, screenshots can be added to this issue via drag & drop.

### What version of bitcoin-core are you using?
List the version number/commit ID, and if it is an official binary, self compiled or a distribution package such as PPA.

### Machine specs:
- OS:
- CPU:
- RAM:
- Disk size:
- Disk Type (HD/SDD):

### Any extra information that might be useful in the debugging process.
This is normally the contents of a `debug.log` or `config.log` file. Raw text or a link to a pastebin type site are preferred.

Commit message:

Make ISSUE_TEMPLATE a bit shorter, mention hardware tests

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, after:

<!--- Remove sections that do not apply -->

This issue tracker is only for technical issues related to Bitcoin Core.

General bitcoin questions and/or support requests are best directed to the [Bitcoin StackExchange](https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com).

For reporting security issues, please read instructions at [https://bitcoincore.org/en/contact/](https://bitcoincore.org/en/contact/).

If the node is "stuck" during sync or giving "block checksum mismatch" errors, please ensure your hardware is stable by running memtest and observe CPU temperature with a load-test tool such as linpack before creating an issue!

### Describe the issue
#### What behavior did you expect?

#### What was the actual behavior (provide screenshots if the issue is GUI-related)?

#### How reliably can you reproduce the issue, what are the steps to do so?

### What version of Bitcoin Core are you using, where did you get it (website, self-compiled, etc)?

### What type of machine are you observing the error on (OS/CPU and disk type)?

### Any extra information that might be useful in the debugging process.
This is normally the contents of a `debug.log` or `config.log` file. Raw text or a link to a pastebin type site are preferred.
